# The-Learning-Course-of-Assembly-Language-Programming
The learning process of assembly language programming has recorded my experience and experience in learning assembly language.
## Warning Before The Project
*Part of the project here comes from the curriculum design of related courses in the College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University. **If you are a student from Zhejiang University, please do not copy the source code directly,because the relevant design code of the course will be checked.If you insist on copying the code directly, the consequences will be your own responsibility.***
## What is Assembly Language
*An assembly language (or assembler language), often abbreviated asm, is any low-level programming language in which there is a very strong correspondence between the program's statements and the architecture's machine code instructions.
Assembly code is converted into executable machine code by a utility program referred to as an assembler. The conversion process is referred to as assembly, or assembling the source code. Assembly language usually has one statement per machine instruction, but comments and statements that are assembler directives, macros, and symbolic labels of program and memory locations are often also supported.
Each assembly language is specific to a particular computer architecture and sometimes to an operating system. However, some assembly languages do not provide specific syntax for operating system calls, and most assembly languages can be used universally with any operating system, as the language provides access to all the real capabilities of the processor, upon which all system call mechanisms ultimately rest. In contrast to assembly languages, most high-level programming languages are generally portable across multiple architectures but require interpreting or compiling.
Assembly language may also be called symbolic machine code.*
## Assembly language syntax
*Assembly language uses a mnemonic to represent each low-level machine instruction or opcode, typically also each architectural register, flag, etc. Many operations require one or more operands in order to form a complete instruction. Most assemblers permit named constants, registers, and labels for program and memory locations, and can calculate expressions for operands. Thus, the programmers are freed from tedious repetitive calculations and assembler programs are much more readable than machine code. Depending on the architecture, these elements may also be combined for specific instructions or addressing modes using offsets or other data as well as fixed addresses. Many assemblers offer additional mechanisms to facilitate program development, to control the assembly process, and to aid debugging.*
## Terminology
*A macro assembler includes a macroinstruction facility so that (parameterized) assembly language text can be represented by a name, and that name can be used to insert the expanded text into other code.
A cross assembler (see also cross compiler) is an assembler that is run on a computer or operating system (the host system) of a different type from the system on which the resulting code is to run (the target system). Cross-assembling facilitates the development of programs for systems that do not have the resources to support software development, such as an embedded system. In such a case, the resulting object code must be transferred to the target system, either via read-only memory (ROM, EPROM, etc.) or a data link using an exact bit-by-bit copy of the object code or a text-based representation of that code, such as Motorola S-record or Intel HEX.
A high-level assembler is a program that provides language abstractions more often associated with high-level languages, such as advanced control structures (IF/THEN/ELSE, DO CASE, etc.) and high-level abstract data types, including structures/records, unions, classes, and sets.
A microassembler is a program that helps prepare a microprogram, called firmware, to control the low level operation of a computer.
A meta-assembler is a term used in some circles for "a program that accepts the syntactic and semantic description of an assembly language, and generates an assembler for that language."
Assembly time is the computational step where an assembler is run.*
## Textbook recommendation
* *Assembly Language* Author: Wang Shuang ,Tsinghua University
* *Assembly Language Programming* Author: White Hong Huan, Zhejiang University
